(upbeat music)
Welcome back!
In the last video we took a look at justified content,
which, if you remember, it's a way to align the items,
this whole kinda group of one to ten,
to the left, to the right, space between,
we could center them as well.
And the main thing that we took away from justified content
is that it aligns this group of items on the main axis,
so by default, the main axis is left to right;
however, we did also look at changing that,
the main axis, from left to right to top to bottom,
when we used, what was it, flex direction column.
So, again, when you have flex direction column,
it changes the axis's, it by default is left to right,
and now it makes it from top to bottom.
Okay.
You're probably sick of me saying that,
but I just wanna drive it home.
Let's now talk about the next one, which is aligned items.
So if we go here, take a look at Chris Coyier's CSS tricks.
Align-items is kinda similar, however,
the main things is we're not concerned
about the main axis, which is left to right.
We're more concerned about the cross axis,
which is, by default, top to bottom.
So, the one thing we need to go ahead
and do here is, if I just go and say,
align items, center, and give it a save,
'cause this is what all everyone kinda goes ahead and do.
They go, oh, flexbox is great at vertically centering items,
I'm just gonna pop a quick align-items, center, refresh,
and everyone gets really frustrated,
'cause, hey, it's not actually centering my items at all.
And the reason is, is because we're
vertically centering things here, along the cross axis,
this container, with the pink border around it,
there's actually no room for it to then go ahead.
So we need to make sure that this container
has some sort of height on it.
Now, if one of your contents were a lot bigger than another,
like, for example, if this ten dropped a little bit down,
you might not need this, but for our cases,
let's pop the a quick height on it.
So, say height, 100vh, and there we go.
Oh, look at that!
It vertically centered them automatically,
since we have this align items, center right here.
So, let me just take that off real quick,
and give it a refresh.
This is what happens by default,
where we've got all of our items,
and by default, the align items is set
to something called stretch.
So, stretch will then, if we put it in here,
you see, like, nothing happens.
It just starts at the top of the container,
and it will stretch itself all the way
to the bottom of the container.
So, we also have center, which will vertically center them,
so, again, we're still in rows here,
but we are vertically centering them.
We've also got flex start, which will
start them all the way at the top,
even though that this space is available for us.
Oh, we got flex end, which will start it at the end,
and then the other one, so we got start, end,
center, stretch, to default.
The kinda cool one is this thing called baseline,
which, it looks at the text in your--
Let me change this to baseline.
It looks at the text in your items,
and will make sure that the bottom of every single letter,
number, whatever is in there, is aligned properly.
Now, we can't really see that much now,
because they're all the same size,
but if I go ahead and change it,
like, box one, font size 30px, and let's do some other ones.
Box three, font size 150, .box four, font size 200,
I don't know how crazy we're gonna get here.
Ooh, look at that!
So, they get bigger, bigger, bigger.
Maybe I'll do a couple more.
Box five, font size 10, and box 10, font size 77px.
So and again, this is not pixel specific.
It could be m's, rems, vh, whatever you want.
So, when I refresh now, you'll notice
that these are all of different sizes.
The height of these items is dependent
on however big he font is.
However, if you take a line and just
draw it right underneath every text,
it's all going to be perfectly aligned
with the baseline of the font, which is extremely handy.
A lot of times you get these designs
from designers, and you've got,
like, maybe like on the left,
you got a title, and on the right you got, like,
the date, and those are two different sizes,
and to try to vertically or sort of align them
on the baseline of the font, is kinda tricky.
You end up just kinda pushing them around
with maybe position relative, or some margin or padding,
or something like that.
So being able to just, say, align items, baseline,
right along there, that is so nice to have.
And it will just figured it all out for you.
Let's do what we did last time, is change the direction,
so again, tell me, our main access, left to right,
our top access, top to bottom again,
so this is top to bottom,
so if we did flex direction, column,
we are switching our axises, which here is,
it's all gonna start it along the left-hand side of it,
but if I change this to align items, center,
and refresh, that's kinda cool.
What happens here is that our cross axis
is not longer top to bottom, it's left to right,
and that's going to align the items along
that down the center.
So, again, very similar to justified content,
just helpful for us to know that.
The main thing I wanna take away from that
is that it's on the cross axis, and needs a height to work.
(upbeat music)